Richard Barrezueta
LING 2100
19 May 2023
Portfolio 1: “My language and me”
I have known Spanish, the language spoken by my Ecuadorian family, for my entire life. Spanish is part of the Romance branch of the Indo-European language family. Approximately 470 million people worldwide speak it natively. It is also the official language of the majority of South and Central America, along with other regions such as Spain. 
I was exposed to Spanish from a young age. Spanish was the language spoken at home, so I learned it naturally through daily conversations with my family. I also grew up in Dover, New Jersey, which consists mostly of people with Hispanic descent (approximately 70%), so even out of the house, I would be speaking Spanish regularly. In addition to learning Spanish from my parents, I took a few formal Spanish courses in high school. We did many group activities and conversations, which gave me another opportunity to practice and gain confidence in speaking Spanish. Overall, the combination of my family and taking formal courses played a significant role in my spanish-speaking abilities. Currently, I consider myself fluent in Spanish. I am able to have conversations, write, and read books in the language.
My interest in learning Spanish greatly stems from my family and where I grew up. The language allows me to connect with my Ecuadorian roots, not just in terms of communication but to my heritage as a whole. Learning Spanish has allowed me to connect with Ecuadorian traditions, my relatives, and embrace my cultural identity. Even though I am interested in other similar languages as well, such as Italian and French, I want to choose Spanish for the class because it is the one that I have always known and yet still have so much to learn about. I am excited to be able to apply linguistic concepts, such as the IPA linguistic alphabet, to Spanish and gain a deeper appreciation for its structure and evolution.
Learning any language comes with its challenges, and Spanish is no exception. Personally, a challenging aspect of Spanish is the pronunciation of some sounds, such as rolling r’s or words with two r’s. An example would be “raro.” I pronounce the “r” sound by beginning to roll the “r,” but stopping before the second vibration, which is hard for me to do when there are two r’s close to each other. I practice it from time to time, but I can’t seem to lose the habit. Hopefully, in this course, I can get a deeper understanding of tongue placement using the IPA system.
Another challenge that I have when speaking Spanish is the sentence structure. Spanish often uses a different word order than English, which sometimes confuses me when speaking. While “blue car” in English has the adjective before the noun, sentences in Spanish flip the order, so it would be “caro azul.” In this case, sometimes I think of the color blue (adjective) first then pause and remember that car (noun) would go first. This mostly affects me when I don’t speak Spanish for long periods of time, especially now that I’m away from home, but fortunately it’s never been a permanent issue that I’ve had.
In terms of cultural context, Spanish has its own set of slang and expressions that are not directly translatable into english. For example, “ponte pilas,” which directly translates into “put on your batteries,” is an expression commonly used to tell someone to pay attention or to be alert. In addition to expressions, regions of the Caribbean, Central America, and South America have different accents that may be hard to understand for non-natives, especially if the speakers are talking fast. A good example would be to compare the Paisa Colombian accent with the Dominican Republic accent.
In relation to other languages, I began listening to some Italian and French music, but not much further than that. I found Italian to be much easier to understand, since some Spanish and Italian words sound very similar, such as “vita” and “amore.” This is most likely due to how both languages originated from latin. I have had no prior formal exposure to linguistics. It would be far too early to tell if I am good at learning languages, since the only languages that I truly know are Spanish and English, while I can recognize an Italian word every so often.
I enrolled in this linguistics course to further deepen my understanding of language and its structures. I hope to gain a comprehensive understanding of the principles underlying various languages, including Spanish.
